# =====================================================================
# pcolpicker - PricolorPicker
# 
# ---
# Developed by:
# 	T.Onodera <onodera.takahiro@adways.net>
# Version:
# 	1.0.0
# Cf.:
# 	http://aidiary.hatenablog.com/entry/20091003/1254574041
# 
# 	(C)ADWAYS Inc. all rights reserved.
# 
# =====================================================================

=encoding UTF-8


=head1 NAME

    pcolpicker - get primary color from image file.

=head1 SYNOPSIS

    ./pcolpicker [-p] [-x|-s] [-c F_CHROMA] [-n S_CHROMA] IMAGEFILE
        -p          ... Simply, most used color picking
        -s          ... Output CSS format
        -x          ... Output with hexadecimals
        -c F_CHROMA ... 0<n<1.0. First pickup threshold(Def 0.5)
        -n S_CHROMA ... 0<n<1.0. Second pickup threshold(Def 0.2)
        IMAGEFILE   ... Image file

=head1 DESCRIPTION

    This program picks up primary color of image file.
    In this program, primary color is defined as a chromatich color
    in image.

    The process will go with several steps.
    First, PricolorPicker will try to find a most used color that
    chromatic value is more than 0.5.
    If it can't find it, program will try to find one more than 0.2.
    If it can't still, program will output most used color.

=head1 INSTALL

=head2 Requirement

Linux and C<gcc> are needed.
And it need OpenCV2. If you use CentOS, see OpenCV section for installing.
(note that to install OpenCV, it is also necessary to install cmake)

=head2 System Environment

Program requires a search path, C</usr/local/lib>.
So you should setup system environment or your current one.
For system one, make file which was written '/usr/local/lib' under the
directory, </etc/ld.so.conf.d/>, and execute C<ldconfig>.
For personal one, set C<LD_LIBRARY_PATH>, one of environment variable, 
before executing program.

=head2 How to make

Change program directory which has sorce, and execute C<make>.

    cd pcolpicker
    make

Executable program, C<pcolpicker>, will be made and copy or move it to
your favorite place.

=head1 COLOR OPTIMIZATION

For easy analization, this program reduce colors of image first to 4096
palletes.

=head1 OUTPUT

Default, this shows RGB values with white space separating like;

    0 8 4

C<-x> option changes these decimal to hexdecimal.

    a d 5

And more, C<-s> option changes these to CSS style hex value.

    #893

=head1 OpenCV

This program uses OpenCV 2, so you neet to install it.
(Prefix should be /usr/local)

If you use CentOS as your host, an web page below will helps well.
(Do not use OpenCV which is installed by C<yum> command.)

L<http://superuser.com/questions/678568/install-opencv-in-centos/725799#725799>

There is snipet of installing from that page.

=over

=item 1. install all the required packages using yum

    yum groupinstall "Development Tools" 
    yum install gcc 
    yum install cmake 
    yum install git
    yum install gtk2-devel
    yum install pkgconfig 
    yum install numpy 
    yum install ffmpeg

=item 2. Create working directory and check out the source code

    mkdir /opt/working
    cd /opt/working
    git clone https://github.com/Itseez/opencv.git
    cd opencv
    git checkout tags/2.4.8.2

=item 3. Create the Makefile

    mkdir release
    cd release
    cmake -D CMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=RELEASE -D CMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX=/usr/local ..

=item 4. (note)

If using cmake version 2.6-patch 4 (check with cmake --version), then you'll need to comment out a line in the build. Comment out string(MD5 hash "${lines}") on line 50 in /opt/working/opencv/cmake/cl2cpp.cmake. Other options (including updating cmake) can be found at here.

=item 5. Build and install

    cd /opt/working/opencv/release
    make
    make install

=back

=head1 BUG and REQUEST, etc.

Tell or ask me, Onodera. 
Program is written by c++, but almost part is C style coding...
It will be pleasure for me that you will improve, correct bug and custormize this!

=head1 VERSION and HISTORY

Ver. 1.0.0 2014/12/11 First Release

=head1 AUTHOR

T.Onodera, C<< <onodera.takahiro at adways.net> >>

=head1 LICENSE AND COPYRIGHT

(C)ADWAYS Inc. All Rights Reserved.


=cut
